---
title: "Gemini CLI installation, execution, and releases"
source: "https://geminicli.com/docs/get-started/installation/"
author:
published: 2026-04-18
created: 2026-05-05
description:
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
This document provides an overview of Gemini CLI’s system requirements, installation methods, and release types.

- **Operating System:**
	- macOS 15+
		- Windows 11 24H2+
		- Ubuntu 20.04+
- **Hardware:**
	- “Casual” usage: 4GB+ RAM (short sessions, common tasks and edits)
		- “Power” usage: 16GB+ RAM (long sessions, large codebases, deep context)
- **Runtime:** Node.js 20.0.0+
- **Shell:** Bash, Zsh, or PowerShell
- **Location:** [Gemini Code Assist supported locations](https://developers.google.com/gemini-code-assist/resources/available-locations#americas)
- **Internet connection required**

## Install Gemini CLI

We recommend most users install Gemini CLI using one of the following installation methods. Note that Gemini CLI comes pre-installed on [**Cloud Shell**](https://docs.cloud.google.com/shell/docs) and [**Cloud Workstations**](https://cloud.google.com/workstations).

- [npm](#tab-panel-18)
- [Homebrew (macOS/Linux)](#tab-panel-19)
- [MacPorts (macOS)](#tab-panel-20)
- [Anaconda](#tab-panel-21)

Install globally with npm:

```bash
npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
```

## Run Gemini CLI

For most users, we recommend running Gemini CLI with the `gemini` command:

```bash
gemini
```

For a list of options and additional commands, see the [CLI cheatsheet](https://geminicli.com/docs/cli/cli-reference).

You can also run Gemini CLI using one of the following advanced methods:

- [npx](#tab-panel-25)
- [Docker/Podman Sandbox](#tab-panel-26)
- [From source](#tab-panel-27)

Run instantly with npx. You can run Gemini CLI without permanent installation.

```bash
# Using npx (no installation required)
npx @google/gemini-cli
```

You can also execute the CLI directly from the main branch on GitHub, which is helpful for testing features still in development:

```bash
npx https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli
```

## Releases

Gemini CLI has three release channels: stable, preview, and nightly. For most users, we recommend the stable release, which is the default installation.

Stable releases are published each week. A stable release is created from the previous week’s preview release along with any bug fixes. The stable release uses the `latest` tag. Omitting the tag also installs the latest stable release by default.

```bash
# Both commands install the latest stable release.
npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
npm install -g @google/gemini-cli@latest
```